---
id: b83f3a22-ea27-4b33-a7cf-d4f8dc9a8b14
title: "We Built a Dale-Chall Readability Algorithm in TypeScript"
description: "This algorithm is part of our nuxt/blog-seo module, it can be turned on and off depending on your requirements and only runs in development."
category: projects
tags: [nuxt, vue]
keywords: 
  primary: Nuxt Dale-Chall Readability Algorithm
  secondary: [Nuxt, Dale-Chall, Readability, Algorithm]
status: published
robots: false
featured_image: dale-chall-algorithm.webp
version: 0.1
updatedAt: 2024-02-04T00:00:00.1Z
publishedAt: 2024-02-04T00:00:00.1Z
---

In our ongoing quest to enhance the readability and accessibility of content, we've incorporated a New Dale-Chall Readability Algorithm into our [nuxt/blog-seo module](#link-to-nuxt-blog-seo-module). This innovative algorithm measures text against over 3,000 words that are familiar to fourth graders, offering a clear indication of the text's accessibility to a wider audience. The more a text strays from this list of familiar words, the higher the reading level it is assigned.

### What Makes the Dale-Chall Readability Score Unique?

Originally developed by Edgar Dale and Jeanne Chall in 1948, the Dale-Chall Readability Formula underwent significant revisions in 1995, expanding its word list and incorporating verb tenses and plurality for a more comprehensive assessment of text readability. This formula is particularly useful not only for ensuring content is accessible to younger readers but also for individuals with additional learning needs, in line with UK government guidelines recommending a reading age of nine years for public content [UK Government Accessibility Guidelines](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/accessibility-requirements-for-public-sector-websites-and-apps).

### How Does It Work?

Our implementation of the New Dale-Chall test analyzes entire texts for word and sentence count, comparing each word against the familiar word list. Texts with more than 5% "difficult" words receive a higher score, indicating a higher reading level. This method contrasts with the original approach, which involved manual comparison and calculations, making our tool a more efficient and reliable solution for modern content creators [More About Dale-Chall Algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dale%E2%80%93Chall_readability_formula#:~:text=The%20Dale%E2%80%93Chall%20readability%20formula,that%20list%20to%20be%20difficult.).

### The Importance of Readability

Readability is a crucial component of accessibility. By employing the New Dale-Chall formula, writers can ensure their content is understandable to a broad audience, including elementary-level readers and individuals with learning disabilities. This approach aligns with our commitment to making information more accessible and easier to digest for everyone [Readability and Accessibility](https://www.grammarly.com/blog/readability/#:~:text=In%20business%2C%20particularly%20in%20marketing,to%20not%20make%20a%20purchase.).

### Why Choose the Dale-Chall Algorithm?

While the Flesch-Kincaid formula is widely used for general readability assessment, the New Dale-Chall score's emphasis on word familiarity makes it the better choice for targeting content at an elementary reading level. Whether you're an educator, content creator, or developer, integrating the New Dale-Chall readability score into your workflow can significantly enhance the accessibility and impact of your writing.

By integrating the Dale-Chall Readability Algorithm into our development tools, we aim to empower our users to create content that is not only engaging but also accessible to as wide an audience as possible.