---
id: f8cc8c01-f11c-4246-a50f-f51a5a285bfc
title: Nuxt Supabase Module - Auth Setup With Profiles
description:
  Assuming you have configured your user_profiles table, this is how you can use it with Nuxt and
  Supabase Auth.
category: backend
tags: [nuxt, supabase, auth]
authors: [1]
contributors: []
primaryKeyword: []
status: draft
featured_image: incubrain-company-values.webp
version: 0.1
updatedAt: 2023/11/08
publishedAt: 2023/05/16
---

## Setup auth in your supabase project

## Install and setup supabase-js

## Configure supabase-js client

first create a nuxt plugin with the following

```ts
import { createClient } from '@supabase/supabase-js'
import type { DatabaseT } from '@/types/schema'

export default defineNuxtPlugin((nuxtApp) => {
  const config = useRuntimeConfig()
  console.log('nuxtApp', config)
  const supaUrl = config.public.SUPABASE_URL
  const supaKey = config.public.SUPABASE_KEY

  const publicClient = createClient<DatabaseT>(supaUrl, supaKey)

  nuxtApp.provide('publicClient', publicClient)
})
```

then create a useClient composable for easy use throughout your composables.

```ts
export default () => {
  const nuxtApp = useNuxtApp()
  const client = nuxtApp.$publicClient
  return client
}
```

Welcome, database lovebirds! In today's episode, we'll play matchmaker and tie the knot between our
`auth.users` and `public.user_profiles` tables in the most romantic of ways: through SQL commands!
Let's embark on this journey of eternal relational happiness (get it? relational? Like a relational
database? No? Ok, moving on).

## The Proposal: Why Marry `auth.users` to `public.user_profiles`?

Our soon-to-be-married couple offers some fabulous benefits:

1. **Identity Consistency:** It's like having a matching tattoo, ensuring each profile is uniquely
   linked to its user. No mix-ups, no accidental identity theft.
2. **Data Integrity:** Just like vows at a wedding, the foreign key ensures each profile sticks to
   its user - no cheating, no stray profiles.
3. **Simplified Queries:** It's like couple's therapy but for SQL queries. You can join the two
   tables with ease, no mediator needed.
4. **Security:** Supabase guards `auth.users` like a pitbull, so sensitive data stays safe. But you
   can still chat with `public.user_profiles` freely, no awkward silences.
5. **Scalability:** Like planning for future kids, having a common `id` prepares your app for more
   tables. More data, more fun!

## The Wedding Preparations: Setting Up The Union

### The Venue: Supabase Dashboard

Let's head over to our wedding venue, the Supabase dashboard. Open up the SQL editor, where we'll
pronounce our SQL commands.

### The Marriage Contract: Creating The `user_profiles` Table

We'll start with a `CREATE TABLE` query, a sort of prenuptial agreement, to create our
`user_profiles` table. It's like a marriage contract, but with a `FOREIGN KEY` constraint:

```sql
CREATE TABLE public.user_profiles (
 auth_id uuid PRIMARY KEY REFERENCES auth.users(id),
 -- Add other relavent columns here, eg.
 email text,
 given_name text,
 surname text,
 username text,
 dob date,
 gender_id integer,
 avatar text,
 created_at timestamptz,
 updated_at timestamptz,
 last_seen timestamptz,
);
```

### The Wedding Planner: Automating User Profile Creation

Creating `public.user_profiles` for every new `auth.users` entry manually is like baking a wedding
cake without a mixer. Let's bring in our planner, PostgreSQL triggers, to automate this task.

1. **Hire the planner (create a function):**

```sql
create or replace function public.create_user_profile()
returns trigger as $$
begin
  insert into public.user_profiles (id, email, created_at, updated_at)
  values (new.id, new.email, new.created_at, new.updated_at);
  return new;
end;
$$ language plpgsql security definer;
```

2. **Plan the wedding (create a trigger):**

```sql
CREATE TRIGGER trigger_create_user_profile
AFTER INSERT ON auth.users
FOR EACH ROW EXECUTE PROCEDURE public.create_user_profile();
```

## The Honeymoon: Setting Up The `user_profiles` Security Policies

Our couple's honeymoon involves setting up security policies. It's like deciding who gets the TV
remote (hint: it's always the user).

1. **Viewing Profiles:** Our guests (users) can view all profiles, no bouncer needed.

```sql
CREATE POLICY user_profiles_select ON public.user_profiles
FOR SELECT
USING (true);
```

2. **Updating Profiles:** Guests can only update their own profiles. It's like an "all you can eat"
   buffet, but you can only refill your own plate.

```sql
CREATE POLICY user_profiles_update ON public.user_profiles
FOR UPDATE
USING (id = auth.uid())
WITH CHECK (id = auth.uid());
```

## Reception: Checking the `public.user_profiles` Table

Finally, it's time for the reception! Head to the "Table Editor" and check out your newly created
`public.user_profiles` table. You should see it sitting there, fresh and shiny, like the newlyweds
at the head of the banquet table.

Remember, when you invite a new guest (add a row) to this table, they need to have a valid invite
(`uuid` from the `auth.users` table). No gatecrashers allowed!

## Conclusion: The Happy Ever After

Phew! The wedding was a success! We've officially hitched `public.user_profiles` to `auth.users`,
and they're all set to live happily (and efficiently) ever after. Just remember to treat them well
and respect their boundaries (row-level security policies), and they'll serve your application
faithfully for years to come. Till un-coding do us part!

